ENH Allow fitting PCA on sparse X with arpack solvers (#18689)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/whats_new/v1.4.rst

  :pr:`26315` and :pr:`27098` by :user:`Mateusz Sokół <mtsokol>`,
  :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>` and :user:`Edoardo Abati <EdAbati>`.

- |Feature| :class:`decomposition.PCA` now supports :class:`scipy.sparse.sparray`
  and :class:`scipy.sparse.spmatrix` inputs when using the `arpack` solver.
  When used on sparse data like :func:`datasets.fetch_20newsgroups_vectorized` this
  can lead to speed ups of 100x (single threaded) and 70x lower memory usage.
  Based on :user:`Alexander Tarashansky <atarashansky>`'s implementation in `scanpy <https://github.com/scverse/scanpy>`.

>   :pr:`18689` by :user:`Isaac Virshup <ivirshup>` and :user:`Andrey Portnoy <andportnoy>`.

Author: > This is a simple adaptation based on my observation on my machine

I reran this and got those relative speedups + memory usage. The single threaded part is relevant for speed, since dense matrix multiplication can be multithreaded.

>   :pr:`18689` by :user:`Isaac Virshup <ivirshup>` and :user:`Andrey Portnoy <andportnoy>`.

Reviewer: I see. It might depend on the machine one uses and the version of the implementation of BLAS.

> The single threaded part is relevant for speed, since dense matrix multiplication can be multithreaded.

Could you explain more about what you mean here? Was this a comparison when running implementation using a single thread?

>   :pr:`18689` by :user:`Isaac Virshup <ivirshup>` and :user:`Andrey Portnoy <andportnoy>`.

Author: > Was this a comparison when running implementation using a single thread?

In my recent rerunning of the benchmark: yes. Well, it was with openblas but using threadpoolctl to get it to use one thread.

I don't remember how I ran the initial benchmark, but it was a while ago.

>   :pr:`18689` by :user:`Isaac Virshup <ivirshup>` and :user:`Andrey Portnoy <andportnoy>`.

Reviewer 2: Well in practice most people will run dense PCA with as many threads as cores (typically 8 to 16 nowadays). But fair enough.

  :pr:`26315` and :pr:`27098` by :user:`Mateusz Sokół <mtsokol>`,
  :user:`Olivier Grisel <ogrisel>` and :user:`Edoardo Abati <EdAbati>`.

- |Feature| :class:`decomposition.PCA` now supports :class:`scipy.sparse.sparray`
  and :class:`scipy.sparse.spmatrix` inputs when using the `arpack` solver.
  When used on sparse data like :func:`datasets.fetch_20newsgroups_vectorized` this

>   can lead to speed ups of 100x (single threaded) and 70x lower memory usage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  can lead to speedups of 100x (single threaded) and 70x lower memory usage.
```
or speed-ups
